# Recite
Recipe tracker, uses SQL database as well as OpenAI API to generate recipes, and store them based on users available ingredients.




https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc1bb32a-200d-4c40-b63e-b3e5332ff135








## Purpose
- Have you ever struggled on deciding what to cook? This site aims to lessen your burden. 
- By inputing the ingredients you have, the site will provide you several recipes you can make, giving you the instructions, measurements and even the macros!
- If you decide you like a recipe generated by the ai, you can save it to your database that can be searched seperatley.
- The recipes that are saved can be edited any time, making it useful for when you want to make slight changes to the ai's recipes.
- Additionally, you can add your own recipes which will also be added into the saved database, and like the ai's recipes can be edited anytime.

## Features
- Generate complete recipes from inputted ingredients
- Get macros of recipes
- Edit and fine tune recipes made by AI
- Store self-made recipes
- Search for recipes by what you have avalible
- Adjust leeway of using extra ingredients in recipe

  
## Development
- Frontend: React
- Backend: Nodejs and express
- Database: SQLite
   - Columns:
      - Recipe Name
      - Ingredients
      - Details
         - Steps (Instructions)
         - Ingredien measurements
         - Cals, Protein, Carb, Fat (in grams)
- AI: OpenAI API

## How to Use
To setup the site on your own enviroment you'll need an OpenAI API key

### Run
    git clone https://github.com/obaid-S/recite.git
    cd recite

### Installing Backend Dependencies
#### Add a .env file to the recipe-backend folder with your openapi key
    OPENAI_API_KEY="aomp"
#### In your terminal run
    cd recipe-backend
    npm install
    npm install express
    
### Installing Frontend Dependencies
    cd recipe-frontend
    npm install

### To start backend run 
    node server.js

### To start frontend run
    npm start
The front end will be automatically updated when code is changed, but the backend will need to be restarted.
